Create number-format.md, closes #3219 (#3240)
Codecademy/docs: content/php/concepts/string-functions/terms/number-format/number-format.md

---
Title: 'number_format()'

> Description: 'Formats a number with grouped thousands'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns a given value formatted with grouped thousands.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Web Design'

>   - 'Web Development'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: there should only be two items under subjects

Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-php'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`number_format()`** function takes a given number and formats it with grouped thousands. If a decimal is given, the number will be rounded up.

## Syntax

```pseudo
number_format($number, $decimals, $decimal_point, $separator);
```

- `number`: The number to format.
- `decimals`: Optional argument that sets the number of digits after the decimal point. If not given, the number returned will be a whole number.

> - `decimal_point`: Optional argument that specifies the decimal separator and should be given in string format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `decimal_point`: Optional parameter that specifies the decimal separator and should be given as a string.
```

> - `separator`: Optional argument that specifies the thousands separator and should be given in string format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `separator`: Optional parameter that specifies the thousands separator and should be given as a string.
```

## Example

This example uses the `number_format()` function to format a whole number using `","` as a decimal separator and `"x"` as a thousands separator.

```php
<?php
  echo number_format("1000000",2,",","x");
?>
```

> This is the output for the above example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will result in the following output:
```

```shell
1x000x000,00
```

## Codebyte Example

> The following codebyte example can be run and calls the `number_format()` method two times. The second call uses the optional `decimals`, `decimal_point`, and `separator` arguments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following codebyte example can be run and calls the `number_format()` method two times. The second call uses the optional `decimals`, `decimal_point`, and `separator` parameters.
```

```codebyte/php
<?php

>   echo number_format("500000");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  echo number_format("500000"), "\n";
```
